Add Benchmark command flags (#5049)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/commands/command-flags.md

---
layout: default
title: Command flags
nav_order: 51
parent: Command reference
---

> 

Reviewer: To keep consistent with other pages, we can add a title here:
`### Command line flags`

Author: Good catch!

> 

Author: ```suggestion

# Command flags
```

> OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) uses command line flags to change OpenSearch Benchmark's behavior. Not all flags can be uses with each command. To find out which flags are supported by a specific command, enter `opensearch-benchmark <command> --h`.

Reviewer: "uses" --> "used"

> OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) uses command line flags to change OpenSearch Benchmark's behavior. Not all flags can be uses with each command. To find out which flags are supported by a specific command, enter `opensearch-benchmark <command> --h`.

Author: ```suggestion
OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) uses command line flags to change OpenSearch Benchmark's behavior. Not all flags can be used with each command. To find out which flags are supported by a specific command, enter `opensearch-benchmark <command> --h`.
```

All command flags are added to a command using the following syntax:

```bash
opensearch-benchmark <command> --<command-flag>
```

Flags that accept comma-seperated values such `--telemetry` can also accept a JSON array. This can be defined by passing in a file path ending in `.json` or inline as a JSON string.

> - Comma-seperated values: `--test-procedure="4gheap,trial-license"`

Reviewer: To keep consistent with the other examples, let's add `opensearch-benchmark` to the beginning of this example:
```
opensearch-benchmark ... --test-procedure="4gheap,trial-license"
```

> - Comma-seperated values: `--test-procedure="4gheap,trial-license"`

Author: ```suggestion
- Comma-seperated values: `opensearch-benchmark ... --test-procedure="ingest-only,search-aggregations"`
```

> - JSON file: `cat test-procedure.json`

Reviewer: `cat` can be removed because we're pointing out the file extension.

Reviewer: On second thought, let's switch this with a command line since this is what the other two examples are doing:
```
--target-hosts="opensearch-target-host.json"
```

- JSON inline string: `opensearch-benchmark  ... --telemetry='["node-stats", "recovery-stats"]'`

## workload-path

Can be either a directory that contains a `workload.json` file or a `.json` file with an arbitrary name that contains a track specification. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.

## workload-repository

Defines the repository from which OpenSearch Benchmark loads workloads. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.

## workload-revision

Defines a specific revision from the workload source tree that OpenSearch Benchmark should use. 

## workload

> Defines the workload to use based on the workload's name. You can find a list of preloaded workloads using `opensearch-benchmark list workloads`. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.

Author: ```suggestion
## workload-params
Defines which variables to inject into the workload. Variables injected must be available in the workload. To see which parameters are valid in the official workloads, select the workload from [the workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads).
```

> 

Reviewer: Would like to see `workload-params` added to this. We can keep it concise. 
```
## workload-params
Defines which variables to inject into the workload. Variables injected must be available in the workload. To see which parameters are valid in the official workloads, visit the respective READMEs for each workload in [the official workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads)
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

## workload-params
Defines which variables to inject into the workload. Variables injected must be available in the workload. To see which parameters are valid in the official workloads, select the workload from [the workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads).

```

This command flag can use the following options:

   - `current`: Uses the source tree's current revision based on your OpenSearch distribution. 
   - `latest`: Fetches the latest revision from the main branch of the source tree. 
   - You can also use a timestamp or commit ID from the source tree. When using a timestamp, specify `@ts`, where "ts" is a valid ISO 8601 timestamp, for example, `@2013-07-27T10:37:00Z`. 

## opensearch-plugins

Defines which [OpenSearch plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/) to install. By default, no plugins are installed.

## plugin-params

Defines a comma-separated list of key:value pairs that are injected verbatim into all plugins as variables.

## runtime-jdk

The major version of JDK to use. 

## client-options

Defines a comma-separated list of clients to use. All options are passed to the OpenSearch Python client. Default is `timeout:60`.

## load-worker-coordinator-hosts

Defines a comma-separated list of hosts that coordinate loads. Default is `localhost`.

## enable-worker-coordinator-profiling

Enables an analysis of the performance of OpenSearch Benchmark's worker coordinator. Default is `false`.

> ## pipeline

Reviewer: Suggest adding that the default is `--pipeline=from-distribution`

The `--pipeline` option selects a pipeline to run. You can find a list of pipelines supported by OpenSearch Benchmark by running `opensearch-benchmark list pipelines`.

## telemetry

Enables the provided telemetry devices when the devices are provided using a comma-separated list. You can find a list of possible telemetry devices by using `opensearch-benchmark list telemetry`.

## telemetry-params

> Enables the provided telemetry devices when the devices are provided using a comma-separated list. You can find a list of possible telemetry devices by using `opensearch-benchmark list telemetry`.

Reviewer: This doesn't define telemetry-params. We can change it to the following:
```
Enables setting parameters for telemetry devices. Accepts a list of comma-separated key-value pairs, each of which are delimited by a colon, or a JSON file name. To see a list of valid parameters, see telemetry documentation. 
```

---
layout: default
title: Command flags
nav_order: 51
parent: Command reference
---

# Command flags

> OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) uses command line flags to change OpenSearch Benchmark's behavior. Not all flags can be used with each command. To find out which flags are supported by a specific command, enter `opensearch-benchmark <command> --h`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch Benchmark uses command line flags to change Benchmark's behavior. Not all flags can be used with each command. To find out which flags are supported by a specific command, enter `opensearch-benchmark <command> --h`.
```

All command flags are added to a command using the following syntax:

```bash
opensearch-benchmark <command> --<command-flag>
```

> Flags that accept comma-separated values such `--telemetry` can also accept a JSON array. This can be defined by passing a file path ending in `.json` or inline as a JSON string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flags that accept comma-separated values, such `--telemetry`, can also accept a JSON array. This can be defined by passing a file path ending in `.json` or inline as a JSON string.
```

> Flags that accept comma-seperated values such `--telemetry` can also accept a JSON array. This can be defined by passing in a file path ending in `.json` or inline as a JSON string.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Flags that accept comma-separated values such `--telemetry` can also accept a JSON array. This can be defined by passing a file path ending in `.json` or inline as a JSON string.
```

> - Comma-seperated values: `opensearch-benchmark ... --test-procedure="ingest-only,search-aggregations"`

Reviewer 2: The list should be introduced by a brief sentence ending in a colon.

- JSON file: `opensearch-benchmark ... --workload-params="params.json"`
- JSON inline string: `opensearch-benchmark  ... --telemetry='["node-stats", "recovery-stats"]'`

## workload-path

> Can be either a directory that contains a `workload.json` file or a `.json` file with an arbitrary name that contains a track specification. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.

Reviewer: track --> workload

> Can be either a directory that contains a `workload.json` file or a `.json` file with an arbitrary name that contains a track specification. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.

Author: ```suggestion
Can be either a directory that contains a `workload.json` file or a `.json` file with an arbitrary name that contains a workload specification. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.
```

> Can be either a directory that contains a `workload.json` file or a `.json` file with an arbitrary name that contains a workload specification. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This can be either a directory that contains a `workload.json` file or a `.json` file with an arbitrary name that contains a workload specification. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.
```

## workload-repository

> Defines the repository from which OpenSearch Benchmark loads workloads. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.

Reviewer 3: Consider adding a pronoun (or some other subject) to make a complete sentence, since this is a description under a heading. Global.
```suggestion
This defines the repository from which OpenSearch Benchmark loads workloads. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.
```

## workload-revision

Defines a specific revision from the workload source tree that OpenSearch Benchmark should use. 

## workload

Defines the workload to use based on the workload's name. You can find a list of preloaded workloads using `opensearch-benchmark list workloads`. `--workload-path` and `--workload-repository` as well as `--workload` are mutually exclusive.

## workload-params
Defines which variables to inject into the workload. Variables injected must be available in the workload. To see which parameters are valid in the official workloads, select the workload from [the workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads).

## test-procedure

> Defines a test procedure to use. You can find a list of test procedures using `opensearch-benchmark list test-procedures`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defines a test procedure to use. You can find a list of test procedures by using `opensearch-benchmark list test-procedures`.
```

## test-execution-id

> Defines a unique ID for this test run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defines a unique ID for the test run.
```

## include-tasks

Defines a comma-separated list of test procedure tasks to run. By default, all tasks listed in a test procedure array are run.

> Tests are executed in the order they are defined in `test-procedure`, not in the order they are defined in the command. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tests are executed in the order they are defined in `test-procedure`---not in the order they are defined in the command. 
```

> All task filters are case sensitive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All task filters are case sensitive.
```

## exclude-tasks

Defines a comma-separated list of test procedure tasks not to run.

## baseline

The baseline TestExecution ID used to compare the contender TestExecution.  

## contender

The TestExecution ID for the contender being compared to the baseline. 

## results-format

Defines the output format for the command line results, either `markdown` or `csv`. Default is `markdown`.

## results-number-align

Defines the column number alignment for when the `compare` command outputs results. Default is `right`.

## results-file

When provided a file path, writes the compare results to the file indicated in the path. 

## show-in-results

Determines whether or not to include the comparison in the results file. 

## provision-config-repository

Defines the repository from which OpenSearch Benchmark loads `provision-configs` and `provision-config-instances`. 

## provision-config-revision

> Defines a specific Git revision in the `provision-config` that OpenSearch Benchmark should use. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defines the specific Git revision in the `provision-config` that OpenSearch Benchmark should use. 
```

## provision-config-path

Defines the path to the `--provision-config-instance` and any OpenSearch plugin configurations to use. 

## distribution-version

Downloads the specified OpenSearch distribution based on version number. For a list of released OpenSearch versions, see [Version history](https://opensearch.org/docs/version-history/).

## distribution-repository

> Defines the repository from where the OpenSearch distribution should be downloaded. Default is `release`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defines the repository from which the OpenSearch distribution should be downloaded. Default is `release`.
```

## provision-config-instance

> Defines the `--provision-config-instance` to use. You can view possible configuration instances using the command `opensearch-benchmark list provision-config-instances`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defines the `--provision-config-instance` to use. You can view possible configuration instances by using the command `opensearch-benchmark list provision-config-instances`.  
```

## provision-config-instance-params

A comma-separated list of key-value pairs injected verbatim as variables for the `provision-config-instance`.

## target-hosts

Defines a comma-separated list of host-port pairs that should be targeted if using the pipeline `benchmark-only`. Default is `localhost:9200`. 

## target-os

The target operating system (OS) for which the OpenSearch artifact should be downloaded. Default is the current OS.

## target-arch

The name of the CPU architecture for which an artifact should be downloaded. 

## revision

Defines the current source code revision to use for running a benchmark test. Default is `current`.

This command flag can use the following options:

   - `current`: Uses the source tree's current revision based on your OpenSearch distribution. 
   - `latest`: Fetches the latest revision from the main branch of the source tree. 

>    - You can also use a timestamp or commit ID from the source tree. When using a timestamp, specify `@ts`, where "ts" is a valid ISO 8601 timestamp, for example, `@2013-07-27T10:37:00Z`. 

Reviewer 2: This last bullet is written as though it should be a separate sentence below the list.

>    - You can also use a timestamp or commit ID from the source tree. When using a timestamp, specify `@ts`, where "ts" is a valid ISO 8601 timestamp, for example, `@2013-07-27T10:37:00Z`. 

Author: ```suggestion

You can also use a timestamp or commit ID from the source tree. When using a timestamp, specify `@ts`, where "ts" is a valid ISO 8601 timestamp, for example, `@2013-07-27T10:37:00Z`. 
```

## opensearch-plugins

Defines which [OpenSearch plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/) to install. By default, no plugins are installed.

## plugin-params

> Defines a comma-separated list of key:value pairs that are injected verbatim into all plugins as variables.

Reviewer 3: See line 112 for key-value pair. One way or the other. But I think "key-value" pair is more prevalent.

> Defines a comma-separated list of key:value pairs that are injected verbatim into all plugins as variables.

Author: ```suggestion
Defines a comma-separated list of key-value pairs that are injected verbatim into all plugins as variables.
```

## runtime-jdk

The major version of JDK to use. 

## client-options

Defines a comma-separated list of clients to use. All options are passed to the OpenSearch Python client. Default is `timeout:60`.

## load-worker-coordinator-hosts

Defines a comma-separated list of hosts that coordinate loads. Default is `localhost`.

## enable-worker-coordinator-profiling

> Enables an analysis of the performance of OpenSearch Benchmark's worker coordinator. Default is `false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enables a performance analysis of OpenSearch Benchmark's worker coordinator. Default is `false`.
```

## pipeline

The `--pipeline` option selects a pipeline to run. You can find a list of pipelines supported by OpenSearch Benchmark by running `opensearch-benchmark list pipelines`.

## telemetry

Enables the provided telemetry devices when the devices are provided using a comma-separated list. You can find a list of possible telemetry devices by using `opensearch-benchmark list telemetry`.

## telemetry-params

> Enables setting parameters for telemetry devices. Accepts a list of comma-separated key-value pairs, each of which are delimited by a colon, or a JSON file name. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enables setting parameters for telemetry devices. Accepts a list of comma-separated key-value pairs, each of which are delimited by a colon or a JSON file name. 
```

> Enables the provided telemetry devices when the devices are provided using a comma-separated list. You can find a list of possible telemetry devices by using `opensearch-benchmark list telemetry`.

Author: ```suggestion
Enables setting parameters for telemetry devices. Accepts a list of comma-separated key-value pairs, each of which are delimited by a colon, or a JSON file name. 
```

## on-error

Controls how OpenSearch Benchmark responds to errors. Default is `continue`. 

You can use the following options with this command flag:

- `continue`: Continues to run the test despite the error.
- `abort`: Aborts the test when an error occurs.

## preserve-install

Keeps the Benchmark candidate and its index. Default is `false`.

## kill-running-processes

> When set to `true`, stops any OpenSearch Benchmark processes currently running and allows OpenSearch Benchmark to continue to run. Default is `false`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, stops any OpenSearch Benchmark processes currently running and allows Benchmark to continue to run. Default is `false`. 
```

## chart-spec-path

Sets the path to the JSON files containing chart specifications that can be used to generate charts.

## chart-type

Generates the indicated chart type, either `time-series` or `bar`. Default is `time-series`.

## output-path

> The path and name where the chart outputs. Default is `stdout`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The name and path used for the chart's output. Default is `stdout`. 
```
